'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.upperok
.TH mlBeginTransfer 3dm
.SH NAME
mlBeginTransfer \- begin a continuous media transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <ML/ml.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3MLstatus mlBeginTransfer( MLopenid openid);\f1
.fi
.SH PARAMETER
.TP 16
\f2openid\f1
a previously-opened digital media path or transcoder.

.SH DESCRIPTION

Begins a continuous transfer on the specified path or transcoder.
This call
advises the device to begin processing buffers and returning
messages to the application.
Attempting to send a buffer to a
device that has not yet begun transfers is acceptable, but will cause
the send queue to stall until transfers have started.

Typically applications will open a device, send several buffers (priming
the input queue) and then call mlBeginTransfer.

This call returns as soon as the device has begun processing
transfers.
It does not block until the first buffer has been
processed.

It is an error to call this function more than once without an
intervening call to mlEndTransfer.

.SH NOTES

The delay between a call to mlBeginTransfer and the transfer of
the first buffer is implementation-dependent.
To begin sending
data at a particular time, an application should start the
transfer early (enqueueing blank buffers) and use the
UST/MSC mechanism to synchronize the start of real data.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
This function returns one of the following:
.P
.TP 6
ML_STATUS_NO_ERROR
The device agreed to begin transfer on the path.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_ID
The specified open device id is invalid.
.TP
ML_STATUS_NO_OPERATION
The call had no effect (transfers have already been started).

.SH SEE ALSO
mlEndTransfer(3dm),
mlOpen(3dm),
mlSendBuffers(3dm).
.P  
Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
