'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.upperok
.TH mlGetControls 3dm
.SH NAME
mlGetControls \- get controls from a digital media object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <ML/ml.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3MLstatus mlGetControls( MLopenid openid,\f1
\f3           MLpv* controls);\f1
.fi
.SH PARAMETER
.TP 16
\f2openid\f1
a previously-opened digital media object.
.TP
\f2controls\fP
list of parameter/value (MLpv) pairs.

.SH DESCRIPTION

Immediately queries the value of digital media parameters
from the specified device.
The device must already be open.
The call blocks until the device has processed the message.
The device will place its reply in the controls array argument
(overwriting existing values).
Control values that were obtained successfully will have non-negative lengths.
getControls returns the state of the controls at the time the call is made.
If getControls is called before a control has been explicitly set,
then generally the returned value is undefined (exceptions are noted
in the definitions of the controls, see for example ML_UST.)

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
This function returns one of the following:
.P
.TP 6
ML_STATUS_NO_ERROR
The control values were obtained successfully.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_ID
The specified open device id is invalid.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_PARAMETER
At least one of the parameters in the controls array
was not recognized (the offending control
will be marked with length -1, remaining controls will
still be processed).
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE	
At least one of the parameters in the controls array
has a value which is invalid.
(the offending control
will be marked with length -1, remaining controls will
still be processed).

.SH SEE ALSO
mlGetCapabilities(3dm),
mlOpen(3dm),
mlPvGetCapabilities(3dm).
.P  
Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
