'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.upperok
.TH mlGetWaitHandle 3dm
.SH NAME
mlGetWaitHandle: mlGetSendWaitHandle, mlGetReceiveWaitHandle \- get an event handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <ML/ml.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3MLstatus mlGetSendWaitHandle(MLopenid openid,
           MLwaitable* WaitHandle);
MLstatus mlGetReceiveWaitHandle(MLopenid openid,
           MLwaitable* WaitHandle);\f1
.fi
.SH PARAMETER
.TP 16
\f2openid\f1
a previously-opened digital media object.
.TP
\f2WaitHandle\fP
resulting waitable.

.SH DESCRIPTION

Returns an event handle on which an application may wait.
On IRIX and Linux, MLwaitable is a file descriptor for use in select().
On NT, MLwatiable is a HANDLE which may be used in the win32 functions
WaitForSingleDevice or WaitForMultipleDevices.

The send queue handle is signaled whenever the device dequeues a
message and the message count drops below a preset level (settable by
a parameter specified when the object was opened).
Thus, if the send
queue is full, an application may wait on this handle for notification
that space is available for additional messages.

The receive queue handle is signaled whenever the device enqueues a
reply message.
Thus, if the receive queue is empty, the application
may wait on this handle for notification that additional reply
messages are ready.

The returned handles were created when the device was opened and are
automatically destroyed when the path is closed.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
This function returns one of the following:
.P
.TP 6
ML_STATUS_NO_ERROR
The wait handle was obtained successfully.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_ID
The specified open device handle is invalid.  In this case
the return wait handle argument is not changed.

.SH SEE ALSO
mlClose(3dm),
mlOpen(3dm),
mlReceiveMessage(3dm),
mlSendBuffers(3dm),
mlSendControls(3dm).
.P  
Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
