'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.upperok
.TH mlGetMessageCount 3dm
.SH NAME
mlGetMessageCount: mlGetReceiveMessageCount, mlGetSendMessageCount \- get a message count
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <ML/ml.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3MLstatus mlGetSendMessageCount(MLopenid openid, 
              MLint32* messageCount);\f1
.sp .8v
\f3MLstatus mlGetReceiveMessageCount(MLopenid openid,
              MLint32* messageCount);\f1
.fi
.SH PARAMETER
.TP 16
\f2openid\f1
a previously-opened digital media object.
.TP
\f2messageCount\f1
resulting message count.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Returns a count of the number of messages in the send or receive
queues of a device.
The send queue contains messages queued by the
application for processing by the device while the receive queue holds
messages which have been processed and are waiting to be read by the
application.
A message is considered to reside in the send queue from
the moment it is enqueued by the application until the moment the
device begins processing it.
A message resides in the receive queue
from the moment the device enqueues it, until the moment the
application dequeues the corresponding reply message (all messages in
the receive queue are counted, regardless of whether or not they were
successfully processed).
The message counts are intended to aid load-balancing in sophisticated applications.
They are not a reliable method for predicting UST/MSC pairs.
.SH NOTE
Some devices can begin processing one or more following messages
before the first has been completed.
Thus, the sum of the send and
receive queue counts may be less than the difference between the
number of messages which have enqueued and dequeued by the application.
Note also that the time lag between a message being removed from the
send queue, and the time at which it affects video pixels passing
though a physical jack, is implementation dependent.
The message
counts are not a reliable method for timing or synchronizing
media streams.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
This function returns one of the following:
.TP 6
ML_STATUS_NO_ERROR
The message count was obtained successfully.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_ID
The specified open device id is invalid.  The message count
argument is not changed.
.SH SEE ALSO
mlClose(3dm),
mlOpen(3dm),
mlReceiveMessage(3dm),
mlSendBuffers(3dm),
mlSendControls(3dm).
.P  
Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
