'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.upperok
.TH mlOpen 3dm
.SH NAME
mlOpen \- opens a digital media object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <ML/ml.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3MLstatus mlOpen(const MLint64 objectId,
           MLpv* options, MLopenid* openid);\f1
.fi
.SH PARAMETER
.TP 16
\f2objectId\f1
the 64-bit unique identifier for the object (jack, path, or transcoder) to be opened.
Obtain these identifiers by calling mlGetCapabilities.
.TP
\f2options\fP
pointer to a list of optional parameters.
May be NULL.
Obtain these parameters by calling mlGetCapabilities.
.TP
\f2openid\fP
resulting open device handle.
Use this to refer to the open instance of this object.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Opens a digital media device with a desired initial configuration.
The system will attempt to open the chosen device and immediately set each of the optional parameters.
The open call will
only succeed if the device could be opened and all listed options could be set successfully.

The allowable entries for the options are listed below and may also be obtained by
getting the OPEN_OPTION_IDS capability from the jack, path or xcode being opened.
Through the use of mlPvGetCapabilities, the acceptable values for each of the following
open options may also be obtained.

.TS
center;
l l l .
Parameter	Type	Description
_
OPEN_MODE	INT32	Application's intended use for the
		device
		ML_MODE_RO for read-only access
		ML_MODE_RWS for shared read/write
		access
		ML_MODE_RWE for exclusive access
		Default is ML_MODE_RWS
OPEN_SEND_QUEUE_COUNT	INT32	Application's preferred size (number
		of messages) for the send queue.  This
		influences the amount of memory
		allocated for this queue when the
		device is opened.
		Default is device-dependent.
OPEN_RECEIVE_QUEUE_COUNT	INT32	Applications' preferred size (number
		of messages) for the receive queue.
		This influences the amount of
		memory allocated for this queue when
		the device is opened.
		Default is device-dependent
OPEN_MESSAGE_PAYLOAD_SIZE	INT32	Application's preferred size (in bytes)
		for the queue message payload area.
		The payload area holds messages on
		both the send and receive queues.
		Default is device dependent.
OPEN_EVENT_PAYLOAD_COUNT	INT32	Application's preferred size (number
		of messages) for the queue event
		payload area.  This payload area holds
		the contents of event messages on the
		receive queue.
		Default is device dependent.
OPEN_SEND_SIGNAL_COUNT	INT32	Application's preferred low-water
		level (number of empty message slots)
		in the send queue.  When the device
		queues a message and causes the
		number of empty slots to exceed this
		level, then the device will signal the
		send queue event.
		Default is device-dependent.
OPEN_XCODE_MODE	INT32	Application's preferred mode for
		controlling a software transcoder.
		Default is ML_XCODE_MODE_ASYNCHRONOUS.
.TE
.P
The names of parameters in the table above have been abbreviated.
For the tabled parameter name X with type TYPE, the unabbreviated name is ML_X_TYPE.
.P
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
This function returns one of the following:
.P
.TP 6
ML_STATUS_NO_ERROR
The object was successfully opened.
.TP
ML_STATUS_OUT_OF_MEMORY
There is insufficient memory to
perform the operation
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_ID
The specified object id was invalid.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_ARGUMENT
One of the arguments to this call
is invalid.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_PARAMETER
At least one of the parameters in
the options list is invalid.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE
A parameter whose value was invalid
was specified in the options list
.TP
ML_STATUS_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES
The path could not be opened - a
required resource is already in use
by this or another application.

.SH SEE ALSO
mlClose(3dm),
mlGetCapabilities(3dm).
.P  
Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
