'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.upperok
.TH mlPvCopy 3dm
.SH NAME
mlPvCopy: mlPvSizes \- sizeof and copy operations.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <ML/ml.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3void MLAPI mlPvSizes(MLpv* msg, MLint32* nParams, MLint32* nBytes);\f1
.sp .8v
\f3MLstatus MLAPI mlPvCopy(MLpv* msg, MLbyte* buffer, MLint32 size);\f1
.sp .8v
.fi
.SH PARAMETER
.TP 16
\f2msg\f1
pointer to the first parameter in a message.
(A message is an array of parameters, where the last parameter is ML_END.)
.TP
\f2nParams\f1
pointer to 32-bit integer to store the number of parameters in the message.    May by NULL if the number of parameters is not needed.
.TP
\f2nBytes\f1
pointer to 32-bit integer to store the number of bytes required to hold a copy of the message.  May by NULL if the number of bytes is not needed.
.TP
\f2buffer\f1
Pointer to a buffer to hold the result of the copy operation.
.TP
\f2size\f1
Size of the buffer in bytes.  This must be at least as large as the
size of the message (as computed by \f4mlPvSizes\f1).

.SH DESCRIPTION

These routines operate on ML messages.  They are primarily intended
for use by utility libraries which wish to mimic some of the
functionality in the core ML library. Applications do not need to
call these functions directly.

\f4mlPvCopy\f1 takes a message and copies it into a memory buffer.
The resulting copy includes both the original parameter list and any
arrays referred to in that list.  (This is the same function used
internally by \f4mlSendControls\f1(3dm) and \f4mlSendBuffers\f1(3dm).)

\f4mlPvSizes\f1 computes both the number of parameters in the message,
and the total amount of memory required to hold a complete copy of
that message (that space includes memory for any arrays referred to in
the message).  

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

These \f4mlPvCopy\f1 function returns one of the following:
.P
.TP 6
ML_STATUS_NO_ERROR
The operation was performed successfully.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_ARGUMENT
At least one of the arguments is invalid.
Perhaps the buffer is too small to hold the result of the operation.

.SH SEE ALSO
mlIntro(3dm),
mlParameters(3dm),
mlGetCapabilities(3dm),
mlPvGetCapabilities(3dm).
.P  
Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
