'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.upperok
.TH mlQueryControls 3dm
.SH NAME
mlQueryControls \- query the control values from a digital media object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <ML/ml.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3MLstatus mlQueryControls(MLopenid openid, MLpv* controls);\f1
.fi
.SH PARAMETER
.TP 16
\f2openid\f1
a previously-opened digital media object.
.TP
\f2controls\f1
list of parameter/value (MLpv) pairs.

.SH DESCRIPTION

Sends a message containing a list of control parameters to a
previously-opened digital media device.
This control message is enqueued
on the send queue in sequence with any other messages to that device.
Each of the parameters will have the value field filled in with the
current (at that time) value and thus are guaranteed to reflect any
previously enqueued send controls messages have been processed.

This call returns as soon as the message has been enqueued to
the device.
It does not wait until the values are actually available.

As each message is processed by the device, a reply message will be
enqueued for return to the application.
By examining that reply, the
application may obtain the result of attempting to process the
requested controls.
Note that a device may take an arbitrarily long
time to generate a reply (it may, for example, wait for several messages
before replying to the first).
If your application requires an immediate
response, consider using getControls instead.

Enqueueing entails a copy operation, so the application is free to
delete/alter the message array as soon as the call returns.
Any error
return value indicates the message has not been enqueued and
no reply will be sent.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
This function returns one of the following:
.P
.TP 6
ML_STATUS_NO_ERROR
The controls were enqueued successfully.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_ID
The specified open device id is invalid.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_PARAMETER
One of the parameters for which the control value is requested
is invalid.
.TP
ML_STATUS_SEND_QUEUE_OVERFLOW
There was not enough space on the path send queue
for this latest message.
Try again later after the device
has had time to catch up, or specify a larger queue size
on open.
.TP
ML_STATUS_RECEIVE_QUEUE_OVERFLOW
There is not currently enough space on the receive
queue to hold the reply to this message.
Read some
replies from the receive queue and then try to send
again, or specify a larger queue size on open.

.SH RETURN EVENTS
Additionally if function returns ML_STATUS_NO_ERROR then a
reply will be enqueued on the receive queue with one of the
following message types:

.TP
ML_QUERY_CONTROLS_COMPLETE
The message contains the values requested from the mlQueryControls operation.
.TP
ML_QUERY_CONTROLS_ABORTED
The message was aborted due to some asynchronous event such as a mlEndTransfer(3dm)
operation was performed.


.SH SEE ALSO
mlGetCapabilities(3dm),
mlGetControls(3dm),
mlOpen(3dm),
mlPvGetCapabilities(3dm),
mlReceiveMessage(3dm),
mlEndTransfer(3dm)
.P  
Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
