'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.upperok
.TH mlReceiveMessage 3dm
.SH NAME
mlReceiveMessage \- receive replies from a digital media object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <ML/ml.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3MLstatus mlReceiveMessage(MLopenid openid,\f1
\f3           MLint32* messageType, MLpv** reply);\f1
.fi
.SH PARAMETER
.TP 16
\f2openid\fP
a previously-opened digital media object.
.TP
\f2messageType\fP
integer to be filled in by the device, indicating the type of message which has been received.
.TP
\f2reply\fP
pointer to the head of the reply message.

.SH DESCRIPTION

Reads the oldest message from the receive queue.
(The receive queue
holds reply messages sent from a digital media device back to an
application.)

Messages on the receive queue may be the result of processing a
message sent with SendControls, they may result from processing
a message sent with SendBuffers, or they may be generated
spontaneously by the device to advise the application of some
exceptional event.

Each message sent with SendBuffers or SendControls generates a single
reply message with messageType indicating whether or not the message
was processed successfully, a pointer to a list of parameters holding
the reply and the size of the reply.

The contents of the reply array are guaranteed to remain valid until
the next call to receive message.
It is acceptable for an application
to modify the reply and then send it to the same or to another device by calling
SendControls or SendBuffers.

Note that, on some devices, triggering of the receive wait handle does
not guarantee that a message is waiting on the receive queue.  Thus
applications must check for a status of ML_STATUS_RECEIVE_QUEUE_EMPTY
even if they only call mlReceiveMessage after the wait handle is
triggered.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
This function returns one of the following:
.P
.TP 6
ML_STATUS_NO_ERROR
The reply was obtained successfully.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_ID
The specified device handle is invalid.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_ARGUMENT
One of the arguments is invalid (perhaps you passed a
NULL pointer by mistake).
.TP
ML_STATUS_RECEIVE_QUEUE_EMPTY
There was no entry on the receive queue.
Try again
later after the device has had time to process additional
messages.

.SH SEE ALSO
mlGetCapabilities(3dm),
mlOpen(3dm),
mlPvGetCapabilities(3dm),
mlSendBuffers(3dm),
mlSendControls(3dm).
.P  
Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
