'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.upperok
.TH mlSetControls 3dm
.SH NAME
mlSetControls \- set controls on a digital media object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <ML/ml.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3MLstatus mlSetControls(MLopenid openid, MLpv* controls);\f1
.fi
.SH PARAMETER
.TP 16
\f2openid\f1
a previously-opened digital media object.
.TP
\f2controls\f1
list of parameter/value (MLpv) pairs.

.SH DESCRIPTION

Immediately sends a message composed of digital media parameters to
the specified device.
The device must already be open.
The call blocks until the device has processed the message.
To identify an invalid value specification, the device will
set the length of the erroneous MLpv to -1, otherwise the
controls array will not be altered in any way and may be reused.
The controls message is not enqueued on the send queue but instead
is sent directly to the device.
Think of it as analogous to an out-of-band message on a network connection.
The device will attempt to process the message "as soon as possible".

.SH NOTES

This call returns as soon as the control array has been processed.
This does not mean that buffers have been affected by the parameter
change.
Rather, it means that the parameters have been validated and
sent to the device (i\.e\.
in most cases this means that they reside in
registers).

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
This function returns one of the following:
.P
.TP 6
ML_STATUS_NO_ERROR
The control values were set successfully.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_ID
The specified open device id is invalid.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_PARAMETER
At least one of the parameters in the controls array
was not recognized (the first such offending control
will be marked with length -1, remaining controls will
be skipped and the entire message will be ignored).
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE	
At least one of the parameters in the controls array
has a value which is invalid.
This may be because the
parameter value is outside the legal range, or it may be
that parameter values are inconsistent.
(the entire
message will be ignored and the system will attempt to
flag the first offending value with length -1).

.SH SEE ALSO
mlGetCapabilities(3dm),
mlGetControls(3dm),
mlOpen(3dm),
mlPvGetCapabilities(3dm).
.P  
Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
