'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.upperok
.TH mluDefaults 3dm
.SH NAME
mluDefaults: mluComputePathParamsFromTiming \- compute path parameters from timing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <ML/ml.h>\f1
\f3#include <ML/mlu.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3MLstatus\f1
\f3mluComputePathParamsFromTiming(MLint32 timing, MLpv* pv, MLint32 flags);\f1
.fi
.SH PARAMETER
.TP 16
\f2timing\fP
A video timing defined by one of the ML_VIDEO_TIMING_INT32 enumerations.
.TP
\f2pv\fP
A MLpv list consisting of control values described below.
The values
of the controls will be set according to the specified timing or format.
.TP
\f2flags\fP
Reserved for future use - must be zero.
.TP
\f2bytesPerPixelNumRet, bytesPerPixelDenomRet\fP
Return values whose ratio gives the number of bytes per pixel.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Use mluComputePathDefaultsFromTiming to get typical values for the following
path parameters:
.nf

        ML_VIDEO_WIDTH_INT32,
        ML_VIDEO_HEIGHT_F1_INT32,
        ML_VIDEO_HEIGHT_F2_INT32,
        ML_VIDEO_START_X_INT32,
        ML_VIDEO_START_Y_F1_INT32,
        ML_VIDEO_START_Y_F2_INT32,
        ML_VIDEO_DOMINANCE_INT32,

        ML_IMAGE_WIDTH_INT32,
        ML_IMAGE_HEIGHT_1_INT32,
        ML_IMAGE_HEIGHT_2_INT32,

        ML_IMAGE_ROW_BYTES_INT32,
        ML_IMAGE_SKIP_PIXELS_INT32,
        ML_IMAGE_SKIP_ROWS_INT32,

        ML_IMAGE_ORIENTATION_INT32,
        ML_IMAGE_TEMPORAL_SAMPLING_INT32,
        ML_IMAGE_INTERLEAVE_MODE_INT32

.fi
The MLpv list pv must consist of one or more of these parameters.
The
values that are assigned to the list are derived from the value of
timing passed to mluComputePathParamsFromTiming.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
This function returns one of the following:
.P
.TP 6
ML_STATUS_NO_ERROR
The function returned the requested result.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE	
The timing was not recognized.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_PARAMETER
An invalid parameter was passed.

.SH SEE ALSO
mlImageParameters(3dm),
mlVideoParameters(3dm).
.SH   

.P
Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
