'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.upperok
.TH mluTCFramesBetween 3dm "\*(PR" "\*(BN"
.SH NAME
mluTCFramesBetween \- Digital Media timecode mathematics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <ML/mlu.h>
.sp .8v
\f3MLstatus mluTCFramesBetween\f1
\f3    ( int *result,\f1
\f3      const MLUtimecode *a,\f1
\f3      const MLUtimecode *b )\f1
.sp .8v
.sp .8v
.fi
.SH TYPES
.TP 16
\f2MLUtimecode\f1
A structure containing a representation of SMPTE time code on which
certain mathematical and utility functions can be performed.
Can be
used with:
\f3mluTCAddTC(3dm)\f1, \f3mluTCAddFrames(3dm)\f1,
\f3mluTCToString(3dm)\f1, \f3mluTCFromSeconds(3dm)\f1,
\f3mluTCToSeconds(3dm)\f1, \f3mluTCFromString(3dm)\f1,
\f3mluTCFramesPerDay(3dm)\f1, and \f3mluTCFramesBetween(3dm)\f1.
See also \f3MLUtimecode(3dm)\f1.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 16
\f2result\f1
The result of calculating the difference (b-a), measured
in frames.

.TP
\f2a, b\f1
The two operands of the differencing operation.

.SH DESCRIPTION

\f3dmFramesBetween\f1 is used to determine the number of frames
between two timecodes.
It returns (b - a), as measured in frames.
The result of the difference operation may be negative; this is
\f2not\f1 an error condition.

Note that the operands \f2a\f1 and \f2b\f1 must have the same
\f2tc_type\fP as each other.

.SH RETURN VALUE

If a \f3MLUtimecode\fP operand (\f2a\fP or \f2b\fP) contains an
illegal timecode value (e.g., a negative entry, invalid frame number,
etc.), these functions will return ML_STATUS_INVALID_ARGUMENT, and the contents of
\f2result\fP will be undefined.

If the \f2tc_type\fP's of \f2a\fP and \f2b\fP do not match,
\f3mluTCFramesBetween\fP will return ML_STATUS_INVALID_ARGUMENT, and the contents of
\f2result\fP will be undefined.

\f3mluTCFramesBetween\fP returns ML_STATUS_NO_ERROR upon successful completion
of the subtraction operation.

.SH SEE ALSO
mluTCFramesBetween(3dm),
mluTCFramesPerDay(3dm),
mluTCFromSeconds(3dm),
mluTCFromString(3dm),
mluTCFromString(3dm),
mluTCToSeconds(3dm).
.SH   

.P
Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
