'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.upperok
.TH mlXcodeWork 3dm
.SH NAME
mlXcodeWork \- perform a unit of transcoder work
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <ML/ml.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3MLstatus mlXcodeWork(MLopenid openid);\f1
.fi
.SH PARAMETER
.TP 16
\f2openid\f1
a previously-opened digital media transcoder.

.SH DESCRIPTION

For software-only transcoders opened with the ML_XCODE_MODE_INT32
open option explicitly set to ML_XCODE_MODE_SYNCHRONOUS,
this function allows an application to control exactly when (and in
which thread) the processing for that codec takes place.

This function performs one unit of processing for the specified codec.
The processing is done in the thread of the calling process and the
call does not return until the processing is complete.

For most codecs a "unit of work" is the processing of a single buffer
from the source queue and the writing of a single resulting buffer on
the destination queue.

Note - the default behavior for all codecs is for processing to
happen automatically as a side effect of enqueueing messages to the
device.
This function only applies to software codecs and only
applies if they are opened with the ML_XCODE_MODE_SYNCHRONOUS open option.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
This function returns one of the following:
.P
.TP 6
ML_STATUS_NO_ERROR
The software transcoder performed one unit of work successfully.
.TP
ML_STATUS_INVALID_ID
The specified device handle is invalid.
.TP
ML_STATUS_NO_OPERATION
There was no work to be done.
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
mlGetCapabilities(3dm),
mlOpen(3dm),
mlXcodeGetOpenPipe(3dm).
.P  
Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
